Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:

Referee: 1

Comments to the Author
This paper presents a approach to detect the occupancy behavior of a building
through the temperature and/or possible heat source information. The building
simulation software EnergyPlus is used to generate temperature traces of rooms
under given various time-series, such as ambient temperature, and HVAC inputs.
And SVR and RNN are used to detect human occupancy of a smart building,
respectively. However, this paper has limited innovation in both technique and
results. There are two main comments or concerns from the reviewer.

== Why RNN and SVR can be used to detect the occupancy behavior in this paper?
In other words, why not use other machine learning methods and other optimal
methods? Authors should give further explanations in terms of theory and
experiments.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
SVR and RNN methods are widely used in non-linear regression applications
because of their good interpolation performance. Especially, an RNN is able to
efficiently capture frequency-domain characteristics in its recurrent
neurons, modeling a non-linear dynamic system underlying, which is an
advantage of being awareness of daily, weekly, and seasonal occupation
patterns. (Added to the intro section)

Answered by Qi Hua:
In this paper we want to compare traditional machine learning algorithm vs
deep learning technique. SVR is a traditional machine learning algorithm which
is widely used as well. Therefore we chose SVR to make predictions and compare
it with RNN.

== Authors should give some comparisons with other works in experiments, such
as:
[1] Dong, Bing, and Khee Poh Lam. "A real-time model predictive control for
building heating and cooling systems based on the occupancy behavior pattern
detection and local weather forecasting." Building Simulation. Vol. 7. No. 1.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2014.
[2] Majumdar, Abhinandan, et al. "Energy-comfort optimization using discomfort
history and probabilistic occupancy prediction." Green Computing Conference
(IGCC), 2014 International. IEEE, 2014.
[3] Yang, Junjing, Mattheos Santamouris, and Siew Eang Lee. "Review of
occupancy sensing systems and occupancy modeling methodologies for the
application in institutional buildings." Energy and Buildings 121 (2016):
344-349.
I cannot list all works about occupancy detection. Authors should give
sufficient survey for related works.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:

We do have a list of reviews of existing works. We added four more citations
of related works in the paper. For work [1], it uses CO2, motion, and
acoustics to detect occupancy and achieves 92% accuracy. Work [2] uses
CO2 and motion sensors to build a probability model using 3-month data, which
was used in energy-comfort optimization. The authors of [2] didn't provide
occupancy detection precision. Works mentions [3] have one major
disadvantage (mentioned in [3]/Table2): multiple sensor network needed.

In addition, there are other several comments or concerns about this paper.

== In page 2, 21 line, what is "IT"?
== In page 2, 24 line, why "buildings utilizing programmable thermostats
virtually are more likely to consume more energies than ones without using
smart devices"? Reviewer cannot find the same opinion in Ref [Bias and Cheng
1999]".
== Typo in page 3, 50 line, provide -> provides. Please carefully proofread the
whole paper.
== What is x in page 5, 45 line; What is l in page 5, 54 line; What is y in
page 6, 9 line. Please give definitions for all variables.
== Syntax error in page 6, line 52-53: "We apply the Elman recurrent neural
network architecture as shown in Fig. 4 to the occupancy of each room in a
certain smart building.". Please carefully proofread the whole paper.
== In Tab I and Tab II, authors use absolute error to evaluate estimation
performance. However, authors should give real-value of occupancy. Why not use
relative error to evaluate that? It seems be more reasonable.
== How to determine constant C in SVR.

Answered by Qi Hua:

IT means information technology, in the context it means energy management
system with information technology. Buildings utilizing programmable
thermostats virtually are more likely to consume more energies than ones
without using smart devices because the smart devices often set off wrongly
and causes unnecessary cost. We will proofread the whole paper and avoid
making typo mistakes. Constant C in SVR is one of its hyper parameters, we
used grid search to determine the value of it.

Referee: 2

Comments to the Author
This paper uses SVR and RNN to predict the occupation (i.e., the number of
people in a room). The proposed technique can be provided to smart buildings to
optimally control the HVAC system. A smart building can shut down the HVAC
system for empty rooms. It can save 28% electricity energy according to the
previous research. The proposed method is demonstrated based on the simulation
results by EnergyPlus. This reviewer would like to bring up the following
comments.

1. Comparing the SVR and RNN models, different features are used. For SVR, the
features include solar angle, light energy, outdoor temperature, indoor
temperature and working time. For RNN, other ambient factors and HVAC power are
used. Why do the authors use different features here? Ideally, the same
features should be used for different models in order to make a fare
comparison.

Answered by Qi Hua:

It is a written mistake. We do use the same feature set.

2. The authors claim that the SVR model is more stable if the features are
changed. The definition of "changing features" is not clear. Please clarify.

Answered by Qi Hua:

Changing features means to add or delete one feature in the feature pool. SVR
performs a little more stably from the experiment result.

3. The authors discuss the accuracy and characteristics based on Figure 16.
However, it is very hard to observe any difference between the curves generated
from SVR, RNN and EnergyPlus.

Answered by Qi Hua:

We made our conclusion not only from figure but also from statistics we get
from experiments. It is a result from observation of figure as well as
calculation from statistics.

4. The training and testing data are generated from EnergyPlus by simulation
other than physical measurement. The accuracy of EnergyPlus simulation cannot
be guaranteed. Please discuss the pros and cons of such a simulation-based
approach.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
EnergyPlus has been proven as a successful energy simulation program with
widely-accepted accuracy for modern buildings (two citations added to the
paper).  Instead of conducting real building experiments, using EnergyPlus to
test and simulate the proposed models is therefore valid, with a state of art
simulation accuracy, which was a major pain point in the past. On the other
hand, using EnergyPlus allows the authors to efficiently choose from a variety
of buildings to test on, as well as easily configure the energy inputs.

There are several other minor issues.

1. In the second paragraph of Introduction, the authors mention that 70% of the
energy has been consumed by buildings according to the US department of energy.
A citation is needed. In addition, a citation for EnergyPlus is needed as well.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
A Dept Energy citation was added to support the 70% consumption percentage.
URL (doesn't appear in the paper due to the formatting):
https://www.eia.gov/totalenergy/data/annual/index.php#consumption
An EnergyPlus citation was added for the EnergyPlus software.

2. There is no label for the x-axis in Figures 10, 11, 12, 14 and 15.
Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
Fixed. In the captions, we added descriptions for x-axis range, unit, and
sample period.

Referee: 3

Comments to the Author
In this model, we provide two sets of model which offers different extent of
con- venience to detect number of employees in an office.

I have no clue what the above sentence is trying to say.


There are many more like this.


Occupancy determination is highly studied in the literature. Authors don't seem
to be aware of the variety of work done in the area.

I don't know what the paper is about and what its novelty is.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
We have added a list at the end of introduction section to highlight our
contribution and novelty.

Referee: 4

Comments to the Author
A machine learning based method is proposed in this paper to detect the
occupancy behavior of a building. The paper is well-organized and well-written.
The rationale behind the method is reasonable and interesting.
I list my main concerns as below.

1. Related works are not completely reviewed. More related works should be
introduced to draw a big picture for the readers.

2. Extensive simulations have been carried out to validate the effectiveness of
the proposed method, and many experimental results are shown in the paper.
However, few result analyses are given in the paper to explain the reason why
the proposed approach can achieve better performance.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
Comparing to the referencing result, the occupation detection performance is
satisfactory, in terms of the detection accuracy. It is superior than others
in the following aspects: 1) No explicit requirement of body-detection
devices, such as infrared detector, which reduces the deployment effort and
cost; 2) Machine learning methods are black-boxed which do not require
explicit modeling.

Introduction section was revised to reflect the points mentioned above.

3. How to select the optimal parameters of SVR and RNN? It is well known that
the performance of SVR and RNN heavily depends on parameter selection.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
We revised section "feature selection" under "proposed occupancy estimation
approaches". All the five thermal-related features should be used in order to
achieve the highest detection accuracy. However, it is sometimes not practical
to acquire all the information, such as the lighting energy, as described.  In
such situation, we can observe a detection accuracy degradation, as described
in the experiment result section.

4. The authors should clearly point out the major contributions of this paper
by using 3 to 5 brief bullet points.

Answered by Hengyang Zhao:
We have added a list at the end of introduction section.

5. You need to decrease the number of pages since there are some unnecessary
explanations especially in the experimental parts. Suppose the readers are
familiar with basic concepts.

Answered by Qi Hua:
We will delete redundant explanations in the paper.


Overall, I think the extension has enough material to be considered for
publication in TODAES.


